Hello friends! In this video let us understand how to
avoid the re-computation issue.
In the previous video, we discussed about dynamic programming approaches and the recomputation issues
in the top down approach. We can avoid the
recomputation issue using memoization. To avoid the recomputation issue
we need to store the result of sub problems in
the separate memory so that when we face the same
sub problem again we need not solve them again
Instead we can re-use the already solved result.
This is called Memoization.
Let us understand that by solving the same nth Fibonacci
problem using a top down approach with an array additional memory
To find the fourth Fibonacci number, allocate 5 memory slots.
As we know the base case fib(0) is 0 and
and fib(1) is 1. Store 0 and 1 in the memory.
The idea here is, before making any recursive call
check if it is already solved in the memory.
If it is solved, just return
the result. Otherwise, initiate the reclusive call to solve the
sub problem.
So Fib(0) and fib(1) are stored.
Here now Fib(2) will be calculated which is Fib(0) + Fib(1)
Now fib(0)
and fib(1) are base cases and are already stored in the array.
So fib(2) will be calculated which
is 0+1 equal to 1 and it will
be stored in the array. Now fib(3) will be calculated
It is not stored in the array. So compute it. that is
fib(2) + fib(1)
that is 1+1 equal to 2.
So fib(3) equal to two and it will be stored in the array.
Now fib(2) should be calculated and when
it is checked in the array, it is already computed and
stored in the array.  So it is only a matter of
returning it from there
We do not need to call fib(0) and
fib(1) recursively. So the repeated work is not
occurring here.
Now fib(4) should be calculated and it is not
already stored in the array. So compute it.
that is fib(3) and fib(2)
that is 2+1 equal to 3
and it will be stored.
This is how memoization avoids the re-computation of same subproblem in the top-down approach.